README.md, before:

ConicIP.jl: A Pure Julia Conic QP Solver
==

[![CI](https://github.com/MPF-Optimization-Laboratory/ConicIP.jl/actions/workflows/CI.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/MPF-Optimization-Laboratory/ConicIP.jl/actions/workflows/CI.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/MPF-Optimization-Laboratory/ConicIP.jl/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/MPF-Optimization-Laboratory/ConicIP.jl)
[![Documentation (dev)](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-dev-blue.svg)](https://MPF-Optimization-Laboratory.github.io/ConicIP.jl/dev/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](LICENSE.md)

`ConicIP` (Conic **I**nterior **P**oint) is an interior-point solver inspired by [cvxopt](http://cvxopt.org/) for optimizing quadratic objectives with linear equality constraints, and polyhedral, second-order cone constraints. (Semidefinite cone constraints are available, but only supported as an experimental feature.) Because ConicIP is written in Julia, it allows abstract input and allows callbacks for its most computationally intensive internal routines.

### Installation

```julia
using Pkg
Pkg.add("ConicIP")
```

Requires Julia 1.10 or later.

### Basic Usage

ConicIP has the interface
```julia
sol = conicIP( Q , c , A , b , 𝐾 , G , d )
```
For the problem
```
minimize    ½yᵀQy - cᵀy
s.t         Ay ≧𝐾 b,  𝐾 = 𝐾₁  × ⋯ × 𝐾ⱼ
            Gy  = d
```

`𝐾` is a list of tuples of the form `(Cone Type ∈ {"R", "Q"}, Cone Dimension)` specifying the cone `𝐾ᵢ`. For example, the cone `𝐾 = 𝑅² × 𝑄³ × 𝑅²` has the following specification:

```julia
𝐾 = [ ("R",2) , ("Q",3),  ("R",2) ]
```

ConicIP returns `sol`, a structure containing error information (`sol.status`), the primal variables (`sol.y`), dual variables (`sol.v`, `sol.w`), and convergence information.

To solve the problem

```
minimize    ½yᵀQy - cᵀy
such that   y ≧ 0
```

for example, use `ConicIP` as follows

```julia
using ConicIP
using SparseArrays, LinearAlgebra

n = 1000

Q = sprandn(n, n, 0.1)
Q = Q'*Q
c = ones(n, 1)
A = sparse(1.0I, n, n)
b = zeros(n, 1)
𝐾 = [("R", n)]

sol = conicIP(Q, c, A, b, 𝐾, verbose=true);
```

### Usage with JuMP

ConicIP implements a [MathOptInterface](https://github.com/jump-dev/MathOptInterface.jl) wrapper, so it can be used as a solver in [JuMP](https://github.com/jump-dev/JuMP.jl).

```julia
using JuMP
using ConicIP

model = Model(ConicIP.Optimizer)
@variable(model, x[1:10] >= 0)
@constraint(model, sum(x) == 1.0)
@objective(model, Min, sum(x))
optimize!(model)
value.(x) # should be ≈ [0.1, 0.1, …, 0.1]
```

Commit message:

Overhaul documentation with Literate.jl tutorials and Diátaxis structure
- Add Literate.jl pipeline: tutorials are runnable .jl scripts converted
  to Markdown at build time, ensuring examples stay correct
- Restructure docs following Diátaxis framework (tutorials / how-to guides /
  reference / explanation)
- Tutorials: getting started, LP, QP (portfolio optimization), SOCP (robust
  least-squares), SDP with vecm/mat walkthrough
- How-to guides: JuMP integration, KKT solver selection and custom solvers,
  preprocessing for redundant constraints
- Rewrite landing page with solver comparison table and two-API overview
- Expand API reference with Solution field table, status values, and
  cross-references to guides
- Add mathematical background with troubleshooting, residual interpretation,
  and parameter tuning guidance
- Fix README: correct install instructions (GitHub URL), add docs link,
  document column matrix convention
- Remove warnonly = [:missing_docs] for strict doc builds

README.md, after:

ConicIP.jl: A Pure Julia Conic QP Solver
==

[![CI](https://github.com/MPF-Optimization-Laboratory/ConicIP.jl/actions/workflows/CI.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/MPF-Optimization-Laboratory/ConicIP.jl/actions/workflows/CI.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/MPF-Optimization-Laboratory/ConicIP.jl/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/MPF-Optimization-Laboratory/ConicIP.jl)
[![Documentation (dev)](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-dev-blue.svg)](https://MPF-Optimization-Laboratory.github.io/ConicIP.jl/dev/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](LICENSE.md)

`ConicIP` (Conic **I**nterior **P**oint) is a pure-Julia interior-point solver for optimizing quadratic objectives with linear equality constraints, and polyhedral, second-order cone, and (experimental) semidefinite cone constraints. Because ConicIP is written in Julia, it allows abstract input and custom KKT solver callbacks for exploiting problem structure.

### Installation

ConicIP.jl is not yet registered in the Julia General registry. Install directly from GitHub:

```julia
using Pkg
Pkg.add(url="https://github.com/MPF-Optimization-Laboratory/ConicIP.jl")
```

Requires Julia 1.10 or later.

### Basic Usage

ConicIP has the interface
```julia
sol = conicIP( Q , c , A , b , 𝐾 , G , d )
```
For the problem
```
minimize    ½yᵀQy - cᵀy
s.t         Ay ≧𝐾 b,  𝐾 = 𝐾₁  × ⋯ × 𝐾ⱼ
            Gy  = d
```

`𝐾` is a list of tuples of the form `(Cone Type ∈ {"R", "Q", "S"}, Cone Dimension)` specifying the cone `𝐾ᵢ`. For example, the cone `𝐾 = 𝑅² × 𝑄³ × 𝑅²` has the following specification:

```julia
𝐾 = [ ("R",2) , ("Q",3),  ("R",2) ]
```

**Note:** `c`, `b`, and `d` must be **n×1 matrices** (not vectors). Use `reshape(v, :, 1)` to convert.

ConicIP returns `sol`, a structure containing the status (`sol.status`), primal variables (`sol.y`), dual variables (`sol.v`, `sol.w`), objective values (`sol.pobj`, `sol.dobj`), and convergence residuals (`sol.prFeas`, `sol.duFeas`, `sol.muFeas`).

To solve the problem

```
minimize    ½yᵀQy - cᵀy
such that   y ≧ 0
```

for example, use `ConicIP` as follows

```julia
using ConicIP
using SparseArrays, LinearAlgebra

n = 1000

Q = sprandn(n, n, 0.1)
Q = Q'*Q
c = ones(n, 1)
A = sparse(1.0I, n, n)
b = zeros(n, 1)
𝐾 = [("R", n)]

sol = conicIP(Q, c, A, b, 𝐾, verbose=true);
```

### Usage with JuMP

ConicIP implements a [MathOptInterface](https://github.com/jump-dev/MathOptInterface.jl) wrapper, so it can be used as a solver in [JuMP](https://github.com/jump-dev/JuMP.jl). Note: only linear objectives are supported through JuMP; use the direct `conicIP` API for quadratic programs.

```julia
using JuMP
using ConicIP

model = Model(ConicIP.Optimizer)
@variable(model, x[1:10] >= 0)
@constraint(model, sum(x) == 1.0)
@objective(model, Min, sum(x))
optimize!(model)
value.(x) # should be ≈ [0.1, 0.1, …, 0.1]
```

### Documentation

For full documentation including tutorials, how-to guides, and API reference, see the [documentation](https://MPF-Optimization-Laboratory.github.io/ConicIP.jl/dev/).
